292. Nim Game
Solved
Easy
Topics
Companies
Hint
You are playing the following Nim Game with your friend:

Initially, there is a heap of stones on the table.
You and your friend will alternate taking turns, and you go first.
On each turn, the person whose turn it is will remove 1 to 3 stones from the heap.
The one who removes the last stone is the winner.
Given n, the number of stones in the heap, return true if you can win the game assuming both you and your friend play optimally, otherwise return false.

 

Example 1:

Input: n = 4
Output: false
Explanation: These are the possible outcomes:
1. You remove 1 stone. Your friend removes 3 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.
2. You remove 2 stones. Your friend removes 2 stones, including the last stone. Your friend wins.
3. You remove 3 stones. Your friend removes the last stone. Your friend wins.
In all outcomes, your friend wins.
Example 2:

Input: n = 1
Output: true
Example 3:

Input: n = 2
Output: true
 

Constraints:

1 <= n <= 231 - 1
Seen this question in a real interview before?
1/5
Yes
No
Accepted
381.8K
Submissions
670.2K
Acceptance Rate
57.0%
Topics
Companies
Hint 1
Similar Questions
Discussion (48)

Choose a type



Copyright ©️ 2024 LeetCode All rights reserved

1)Optimized Approach:
class Solution:
    def canWinNim(self, n: int) -> bool:
        if n%4 == 0:
            return False
        return True

2)Similar Approach:
class Solution {
public:
    bool canWinNim(int n) {
        if(n%4 == 0){
        return false;
        }   
        return true;
    }
};

3)Optimized Approach:
class Solution:
    def canWinNim(self, n: int) -> bool:
        """
        Approach:  Logic, but with bit optimizations.
        Idea:      Same as the regular solution.
        Time:      O(1): Same as the regular solution.
        Space:     O(1): Same as the regular solution.
        Leetcode:  ? ms runtime, ? MB memory
        """

        # If the lower 2 bits of n are 0 (i.e. match this pattern), that means n is divisible by 4, in which case we would lose the game.
        loss_pattern = 0b00
        mask = 0b11
        lose_game = (n & mask) == loss_pattern
        return not (lose_game)