367. Valid Perfect Square
Easy
Topics
Companies
Given a positive integer num, return true if num is a perfect square or false otherwise.

A perfect square is an integer that is the square of an integer. In other words, it is the product of some integer with itself.

You must not use any built-in library function, such as sqrt.

 

Example 1:

Input: num = 16
Output: true
Explanation: We return true because 4 * 4 = 16 and 4 is an integer.
Example 2:

Input: num = 14
Output: false
Explanation: We return false because 3.742 * 3.742 = 14 and 3.742 is not an integer.
 

Constraints:

1 <= num <= 231 - 1

Seen this question in a real interview before?
1/5
Yes
No
Accepted
623K
Submissions
1.4M
Acceptance Rate
43.8%
Topics
Companies
Similar Questions
Discussion (52)


1)By Brute Force:
class Solution:
    def isPerfectSquare(self, num: int) -> bool:
        list = []

        for i in range(0,2**16):
            list.append(i**2)
        
        if num in list:
            return True
        else:
            return False

2)By SquareRoot Method:
class Solution {
public:
    bool isPerfectSquare(int num) {
        if((sqrt(num) - floor(sqrt(num))) > 0){
            return false;
        }
        return true;
    }
};

3)One Line:
class Solution {
public:
    bool isPerfectSquare(int num) {
        return num == pow(floor(sqrt(num)), 2);
    }
};

4)Binary Search: We initialize two pointers, l and r, representing the lower and upper bounds of the search range, respectively. Initially, l is set to 1 and r is set to the given number num.
We perform binary search within the range [l, r]. At each step, we calculate the mid value as mid = l + (r - l) / 2.
If the square of mid is equal to num, we return true, indicating that num is a perfect square.
If the square of mid is greater than num, we update r to mid - 1 to search in the left half of the range.
If the square of mid is less than num, we update l to mid + 1 to search in the right half of the range.
We continue this process until l becomes greater than r, indicating that the search space is exhausted.
If we do not find any perfect square during the search, we return false.

class Solution {
    public boolean isPerfectSquare(int num) {
        long l = 1, r = num;
        while (l <= r) {
            long mid = l + (r - l) / 2;
            if (mid * mid == num) 
                return true;
            else if (mid * mid > num) 
                r = mid - 1; 
            else 
                l = mid + 1;
        }
        return false;
    }
}