202. Happy Number
Solved
Easy
Topics
Companies
Write an algorithm to determine if a number n is happy.

A happy number is a number defined by the following process:

Starting with any positive integer, replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits.
Repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it will stay), or it loops endlessly in a cycle which does not include 1.
Those numbers for which this process ends in 1 are happy.
Return true if n is a happy number, and false if not.

 

Example 1:

Input: n = 19
Output: true
Explanation:
12 + 92 = 82
82 + 22 = 68
62 + 82 = 100
12 + 02 + 02 = 1
Example 2:

Input: n = 2
Output: false
 

Constraints:

1 <= n <= 231 - 1

Seen this question in a real interview before?
1/5
Yes
No
Accepted
1.5M
Submissions
2.6M
Acceptance Rate
56.3%
Topics
Companies
Similar Questions
Discussion (162)

Choose a type



Copyright ©️ 2024 LeetCode All rights reserved

1)Optimized Using HashTable [Forms a cycle in values of exp so to detect it we use Hash Table]:
class Solution {
public:
    bool isHappy(int n) {
        int exp=0;
        unordered_map <int,int> umap;
        while(true){
            while(n > 0){
                int lastdigit = n % 10;
                exp += pow(lastdigit,2);
                n /= 10;
            }
            
            if(exp == 1){
                return true;
            }
            else{
                if(umap.find(exp) != umap.end()){
                    return false;
                }
                else{
                    umap[exp] = 1;
                } 
            }
            n = exp;
            exp = 0;
        }

        return false;
    }
};

2)Similar Code in Python with List for HashMap:
class Solution:
    def isHappy(self, n: int) -> bool:
        num_seen = []
        exp = 0
        while True:
            while n > 0:
                lastdigit = n%10
                exp = exp + lastdigit**2
                n = int(n/10)
            
            if exp == 1:
                return True
            else:
                if exp in num_seen:
                    return False
                else:
                    num_seen.append(exp)  
            n = exp
            exp = 0

        return False 


3)I see the majority of those posts use hashset to record values. Actually, we can simply adapt the Floyd Cycle detection algorithm. I believe that many people have seen this in the Linked List Cycle detection problem. The following is my code:

Detailed explanation for those who still don't get the logic/idea behind this algorithm

Surprisingly, we can apply the Floyd Cycle Detection (the one we used in Detect Linked List Cycle) on this problem: think of what is a cycle in this case:

from a number A, we can get to another B using the ways given in this case
from number B, when we doing the transformation, we will eventually get back to B again ---> this forms a cycle (infinite loop)

for example:
1^2 + 1^2 = 2
2^2 = 4 ------> notice that from here we are starting with 4
4^2 = 16
1^2 + 6^2 = 37
3^2 + 7^2 = 58
5^2 + 8^2 = 89
8^2 + 9^2 = 145
1^2 + 4^2 + 5^2 = 42
4^2 + 2^2 = 20
2^2 + 0^2 = 4 -------> notice that we just get back to 4 again

Using Floyd Cycle Detection algorithm (fast and slow pointer), we will be able to actually get the value of B. Then the rest of task would be very simple, we simply check whether this value will be 1 or not.

You may ask: what if value "1" also appears in the cycle and we are skipping over it. Well, in that case, the value that slow and fast are equal to will be 1, as transformation of 1 is still 1, so we still cover this case.

class Solution {
public:
    int digitSquareSum(int n) {
        int sum = 0, tmp;
            while (n) {
                tmp = n % 10;
                sum += tmp * tmp;
                n /= 10;
            }
        return sum;
    }

    bool isHappy(int n) {
        int slow, fast;
        slow = fast = n;
            do {
                slow = digitSquareSum(slow);
                fast = digitSquareSum(fast);
                fast = digitSquareSum(fast);
            } while(slow != fast);
        if (slow == 1) return 1;
        else return 0;
    }
};


4)Optimized Approach:
/*

    Time Complexity : O(logN) where N is the number.

    Space Complexity : O(logN), Hash Table(unordered_set(set)) space.

    Solved using Math + Hash Table.

*/


/***************************************** Approach 1 *****************************************/

class Solution {
private:
    int nextNumber(int n){
        int newNumber = 0;
        while(n!=0){
            int num = n%10;
            newNumber += num*num;
            n = n/10;
        }
        return newNumber;
    }
public:
    bool isHappy(int n) {
        unordered_set<int> set;
        while(n!=1 && !set.count(n)){
            set.insert(n);
            n = nextNumber(n);
        }
        return n==1;
    }
};






/*

    Time Complexity : O(logN) where N is the number.

    Space Complexity : O(1), Constant space.

    Solved using Floyd's Cycle-Finding Algorithm.

*/


/***************************************** Approach 2 *****************************************/

class Solution {
private:
    int nextNumber(int n){
        int newNumber = 0;
        while(n!=0){
            int num = n%10;
            newNumber += num*num;
            n = n/10;
        }
        return newNumber;
    }
public:
    bool isHappy(int n) {
        int slowPointer = n;
        int fastPointer = nextNumber(n);
        while(fastPointer != 1 && fastPointer != slowPointer){
            slowPointer = nextNumber(slowPointer);
            fastPointer = nextNumber(nextNumber(fastPointer));
        }
        return fastPointer==1;
    }
};
