748. Shortest Completing Word
Solved
Easy
Topics
Companies
Hint
Given a string licensePlate and an array of strings words, find the shortest completing word in words.

A completing word is a word that contains all the letters in licensePlate. Ignore numbers and spaces in licensePlate, and treat letters as case insensitive. If a letter appears more than once in licensePlate, then it must appear in the word the same number of times or more.

For example, if licensePlate = "aBc 12c", then it contains letters 'a', 'b' (ignoring case), and 'c' twice. Possible completing words are "abccdef", "caaacab", and "cbca".

Return the shortest completing word in words. It is guaranteed an answer exists. If there are multiple shortest completing words, return the first one that occurs in words.

 

Example 1:

Input: licensePlate = "1s3 PSt", words = ["step","steps","stripe","stepple"]
Output: "steps"
Explanation: licensePlate contains letters 's', 'p', 's' (ignoring case), and 't'.
"step" contains 't' and 'p', but only contains 1 's'.
"steps" contains 't', 'p', and both 's' characters.
"stripe" is missing an 's'.
"stepple" is missing an 's'.
Since "steps" is the only word containing all the letters, that is the answer.
Example 2:

Input: licensePlate = "1s3 456", words = ["looks","pest","stew","show"]
Output: "pest"
Explanation: licensePlate only contains the letter 's'. All the words contain 's', but among these "pest", "stew", and "show" are shortest. The answer is "pest" because it is the word that appears earliest of the 3.
 

Constraints:

1 <= licensePlate.length <= 7
licensePlate contains digits, letters (uppercase or lowercase), or space ' '.
1 <= words.length <= 1000
1 <= words[i].length <= 15
words[i] consists of lower case English letters.

Seen this question in a real interview before?
1/5
Yes
No
Accepted
76.4K
Submissions
127.1K
Acceptance Rate
60.1%
Topics
Companies
Hint 1
Discussion (8)

1)BruteForce:
class Solution:
    def shortestCompletingWord(self, licensePlate: str, words: List[str]) -> str:
        licensePlate = licensePlate.lower()  

        dict = {}
        for char in licensePlate:
            if ord(char) >= 97 and ord(char)<=122:
                if char in dict.keys():
                    dict[char] = dict[char] + 1
                else:
                    dict[char] = 1
        
        new_dict = dict.copy()
        flag = 1
        ans = ""
        minLength = 1000

        for word in words:
            for char in word:
                if char in new_dict.keys():
                    new_dict[char] = new_dict[char] - 1 
            
            for item in new_dict.values():
                if item > 0:
                    flag = 0
                    break
            
            if(flag == 1):
                if minLength > len(word):
                    minLength = len(word)
                    ans = word
            
            new_dict = dict.copy()
            flag = 1
                    
        return ans 

2)Optimized Approach:
class Solution:
    def shortestCompletingWord(self, lp: str, words: List[str]) -> str:
        lp=lp.lower()
        k=list(lp)
        ans=""
        for word in words:
            flg=True
            for i in set(k):
                if(i.isalpha()):
                    if(i in word and lp.count(i)<=word.count(i)):
                        continue
                    else:
                        flg=False
                        break
            if(flg==True):
                if(len(ans)==0 or len(ans)>len(word)):
                    ans=word
        return ans  

3)2 Liner:
In first line, just filter out all none letters from the plate and make sure all letters are lower case.
In second line, iterate through all words and use & to extract the count of shared letters between the word and the plate. If all the counts are equal, this returns true. Then, just extract the word that satisfies this condition and has the shortest length.

    def shortestCompletingWord(self, licensePlate: str, words: List[str]) -> str:
        pc = Counter(filter(lambda x : x.isalpha(), licensePlate.lower()))
        return min([w for w in words if Counter(w) & pc == pc], key=len) 