88. Merge Sorted Array
Solved
Easy
Topics
Companies
Hint
You are given two integer arrays nums1 and nums2, sorted in non-decreasing order, and two integers m and n, representing the number of elements in nums1 and nums2 respectively.

Merge nums1 and nums2 into a single array sorted in non-decreasing order.

The final sorted array should not be returned by the function, but instead be stored inside the array nums1. To accommodate this, nums1 has a length of m + n, where the first m elements denote the elements that should be merged, and the last n elements are set to 0 and should be ignored. nums2 has a length of n.

 

Example 1:

Input: nums1 = [1,2,3,0,0,0], m = 3, nums2 = [2,5,6], n = 3
Output: [1,2,2,3,5,6]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1,2,3] and [2,5,6].
The result of the merge is [1,2,2,3,5,6] with the underlined elements coming from nums1.
Example 2:

Input: nums1 = [1], m = 1, nums2 = [], n = 0
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1] and [].
The result of the merge is [1].
Example 3:

Input: nums1 = [0], m = 0, nums2 = [1], n = 1
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [] and [1].
The result of the merge is [1].
Note that because m = 0, there are no elements in nums1. The 0 is only there to ensure the merge result can fit in nums1.
 

Constraints:

nums1.length == m + n
nums2.length == n
0 <= m, n <= 200
1 <= m + n <= 200
-109 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 109
 

Follow up: Can you come up with an algorithm that runs in O(m + n) time?


Seen this question in a real interview before?
1/5
Yes
No
Accepted
3.2M
Submissions
6.4M
Acceptance Rate
49.8%
Topics
Companies
Hint 1
You can easily solve this problem if you simply think about two elements at a time rather than two arrays. We know that each of the individual arrays is sorted. What we don't know is how they will intertwine. Can we take a local decision and arrive at an optimal solution?
Hint 2
If you simply consider one element each at a time from the two arrays and make a decision and proceed accordingly, you will arrive at the optimal solution.
Similar Questions


code: 1) Optimal approach:
class Solution {
public:
    void merge(vector<int>& nums1, int m, vector<int>& nums2, int n) {
        vector<int> ans;
        int i=0;
        int j=0;
        while(i<m && j<n){
            if(nums1[i] <= nums2[j]){
                ans.push_back(nums1[i]);
                i++;
            }
            else if(nums1[i] > nums2[j]){
                ans.push_back(nums2[j]);
                j++;
            }
        }

        if(i<m){
            while(i<m){
                ans.push_back(nums1[i]);
                i++;
            }
        }

        if(j<n){
            while(j<n){
                ans.push_back(nums2[j]);
                j++;
            }
        }

        nums1.clear();

        for(int i=0;i<n+m;i++){
            nums1.push_back(ans[i]);
        }
    }
};

2) Most optimized:
class Solution {
public:
    void merge(vector<int>& nums1, int m, vector<int>& nums2, int n) {
        int i = m - 1;
        int j = n - 1;
        int k = m + n - 1;
        
        while (j >= 0) {
            if (i >= 0 && nums1[i] > nums2[j]) {
                nums1[k--] = nums1[i--];
            } else {
                nums1[k--] = nums2[j--];
            }
        }
    }
};

3) by sorting

class Solution(object):
    def merge(self, nums1, m, nums2, n):
        """
        :type nums1: List[int]
        :type m: int
        :type nums2: List[int]
        :type n: int
        :rtype: None Do not return anything, modify nums1 in-place instead.
        """

        for i in range(len(nums1) - m):
            nums1.remove(nums1[m])
        
        for item in nums2:
            nums1.append(item)

        nums1.sort()    